<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8' ?>
<ui:composition xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:ui="http://java.sun.com/jsf/facelets"
      xmlns:h="http://java.sun.com/jsf/html"
      xmlns:f="http://java.sun.com/jsf/core"
      xmlns:c="http://java.sun.com/jsp/jstl/core"
      template="/WEB-INF/templates/master.xhtml">
    
    <ui:define name="title">Upload complete</ui:define>
    <ui:define name="head">
        <h:outputScript name="jquery-1.4.js" library="jquery" />
        <script type="text/javascript">
//<![CDATA[

            // "data" is a au.com.postnewspapers.postupload.common.UploadSummary JSON representation
            populateSuccess = function(data) {
                jQuery('#numFilesOk').text(data.okFiles.length);
                var okFileList = jQuery('#okFileList');
                jQuery.each(data.okFiles, function(index, value){
                    var li = jQuery('<li/>');
                    li.attr('class','good');
                    li.append(jQuery('<span/>').addClass('fileName').text(value.name));
                    okFileList.append( li );
                });
                jQuery('#okFileList').show();
                
                if (data.badFiles.length > 0) {
                    jQuery('#numFilesBad').text(data.badFiles.length);
                    var badFileList = jQuery('#badFileList');
                    jQuery.each(data.badFiles, function(index,value){
                        var li = jQuery('<li/>');
                        li.attr('class','bad');
                        var fn = jQuery('<span/>').addClass('fileName').text(value.name);
                        var errType = jQuery('<span/>').addClass('errorType').text("Reason: " + value.errorType);
                        var errMsg = jQuery('<span/>').addClass('errorType').text(value.errorInfo);
                        li.append(fn).append(" ").append(errType).append(" ").append(errMsg);
                        badFileList.append(li);
                    });
                    jQuery('#badFilesListHeader').show();
                    jQuery('#badFilesMsg').show();
                    jQuery('#badFileList').show();
                }
                
            };
            
            // Work to perform only once DOM is ready
            jQuery(document).ready(function() {
            
                jQuery('#javascriptOff').empty();
                jQuery('#loading').show();

                jQuery.ajax({
                    'url' : "#{facesContext.externalContext.request.contextPath}/rest/file/summary",
                    'dataType' : 'json',
                    'cache' : false,
                    'type' : 'GET',
                    'error' : function(jqXHR, textStatus, errorThrown) {
                        var msg = "Please note the following down for technical support: Fetch of submission results failed: " + textStatus + ", " + errorThrown;
                        jQuery('#loading').hide();
                        jQuery('#failure').show();
                        jQuery('#errorDetail').text(msg);
                    },
                    'success': function(data, textStatus, jqXHR) {
                        jQuery('#loading').hide();
                        populateSuccess(data);
                        jQuery('#success').show();
                    }
                });
            }); // end jQuery(document)
//]]>
        </script>
        <style type="text/css" media="screen">
            li span.fileName {
                display: block;
            }
            li span.errorType {
                color: red;
                font-weight: bold;
            }
            li span.errorMsg {
                color: red;
            }
            li.good { list-style-image: url(#{resource['icons:tick-icon.png']}); }
            li.bad { list-style-image: url(#{resource['icons:stop-icon.png']}); }
        </style>
    </ui:define>
    <ui:define name="body">
        
        <p id="javascriptOff"><b>Your computer has JavaScript disabled</b>
            or has an add-on like NoScript installed. This web site cannot
            work without JavaScript. Please turn JavaScript back on and try again.</p>
        
        
        <div id="loading" style="display: none;">
            <p>Loading upload results...</p>
        </div>
        
        
        <div id="failure" style="display: none;">
            
            <p><b>Your files could not be uploaded</b> or the server could not be
                contacted to confirm the status of the upload. Please contact
                technical support for assistance or try the basic
                upload form.</p>
            
            <p>If you are using an unusual web browser, please try again with a
                release version of Firefox, Chrome, Internet Explorer, Safari or Opera.</p>
            
            <p>Make sure you do not have any ad-blocking or flash-blocking add-ons
                installed, or add an exception for this site.</p>
            
            <p id="errorDetail"></p>
            
        </div>
        
        
        <div id="success" style="display: none;">
            <p><span id="numFilesOk"/> files were uploaded successfully.
                <span id="badFilesMsg" style="display:none;"><b><span id="numFilesBad"/> files failed to upload.</b></span></p>
       
            <ul id="okFileList"></ul>
            
            <p id="badFilesListHeader" style="display: none;">The following files could not be uploaded:</p>
            <ul id="badFileList" style="display: none;"></ul>
            
            <p>The recipient has been notified by email, and a confirmation email has been sent to you.</p>
            
            <h:link outcome="upload">Upload more files</h:link>
        
        </div>
    </ui:define>
</ui:composition>
